Technical Documentation for Classroom Visualization project
by Hyung-seo Park (E'15) and Alison Tai (E'15)

Background:
Our senior capstone project's goal was to visualize the
flow of students from one building to another in order to
correlate it with departmental growth.

Technical:
- 	For the visualization we use D3. D3 is essentially a javascript
  	library that offers some powerful tools for creating beautiful
  	graphics. 
  	However, it is a little tricky to use. Much of it involves tacking on
  	additional D3 elements (path, chords etc.) on the html and modifying its
  	style and attributes. 
  	A lot of what we did (and presumably what you would do) involved taking
  	existing D3 visualization code (available readily online... there is
  	literally almost everything you could imagine) and tailoring them
  	to our needs and wants.
  	To extend our project I would just advise that you first learn the basics of
  	D3, understand (just generally) how our project's D3 code works and then
  	move on to add your own visualizations.
-	To host our project, we used Microsoft Azure. This also allowed us to use an online database 
	to store our data.
	We used Microsoft Azure because we are both going to be MS employees next year 
	and we had access to a free Azure server that could host our project.
	Though before considering hosting the project, I would advise to test things locally first.
	You don't have to use Azure to host the website, anything else would do. Ideally choose an option
	that gives you a database. 
	NOTE: developing locally can be tricky if you are trying to read from
	a CSV since you can't access local files from a browser. Neither can you
	just host on a github page because it then runs into some cross domain referencing
	issues... 
	The best solution we found was to use a super hacky function (see CourseLocationCSV.js) 
	that essentially turns the entire csv...into a string. You can look at the code
	but trust me it's some mad voodoo magic going on there... But it works.
-	For the UI we used a bit of jquery which is just a js library that makes js a bit
	more bearable.

Project files:
- 	index.html: this is the only web page that we have. Open this in your browser to see our project.
- 	bundle.js: D3 code that controls the bundle visualization (the segmented circle with arcs in-between)
-	heatmap.js: D3 code that controls the heatmap that pops up when use clicks on a circle segment
-	piechat.js: D3 code that controls the piechart that pops up next to the heatmap
- 	parser.js: js code used to parse and process data to be readied for the visualization
-	ui.js: js code that controls some UI interactions (buttons, resize etc.)

Project set-up:
There isn't anything that really needs to be installed ahead of time.
Just fork our project at https://github.com/alictai/wolfpak.
There might be some changes you might need to make in parser.js in the function parse_courses if you are
opening the page locally and not on a server with a database.

The Data:
One of the biggest challenges we faced during our project was obtaining the necessary data. 
Right now, we are using a csv file that contains course information.
Ideally, what we really needed were student schedule data which would have been so much
more accurate in regards to the path students take everyday.

